Approach in developing an agent who can play a 3-dice game 

Before creating the algorithm that will eventually play the game, it was necessary to find a few key figures that will guide further thinking. Since the only goal of the game is to maximize the sum of the dice numbers, knowing how much certain sums are more likely than others and in which combinations they come is quite important. So, in this game there are a total of 216 different combinations of how dice can fall. If we exclude the remaining permutations of all combinations, we are actually left with only 56 different combinations. The range of sums ranges from a minimum of 3 to a maximum of 18. The probability of sums occurring follows a normal, bell-shaped Gaussian distribution. Most combinations make up the sum between 9 and 12, in the middle of the Gaussian curve. Going further in developing the algorithm, I singled out combinations that make sums in the following ranges, 18 to 15, 14 to 11, 10 to 7, and 6 to 3. For each member of these combination groups, I observed how likely it is that some of the combinations will result in a bigger sum if I decide to roll one of the dice again. On the other hand, if it pays more to keep the existing combination completely, then that is algorithm's choice. We can take a look at a group of combinations whose sums are between 15 and 18. I decided to keep all combinations except the state which is equal to (1,1,3). For this state, the probability exceeds 50% that the final sum will be higher if I reroll a last die, ie the one that is 3. There were more potential candidates to reroll, but in no case the probability exceeds 50% that the final sum will be bigger by rolling one of the dice again. I was guided by this thinking by going through other groups of combinations. If there is a state within the group of combinations for which there is more than a 50% chance that it will ultimately be a larger sum, a die with the number that contributes the least to the final sum is rerolled. In addition to the stated logic, another technical detail was missing. All permutations of a certain combination should be taken into account because each of the permutations can appear as a state. Fortunately, this detail has been resolved using the itertools module and the permutation function.